---
title: "Icarus Antiterrorism Trojan, Cyberweapon to Command-and-Control Terrorist's IT assets 🛡️​"
date: 2024-01-11 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [Icarus - Antiterrorism Trojan]
tags: [Icarus, Antiterrorism Trojan]
---

In recent decades, we have witnessed an increase in terrorist attacks and activities
criminals, who have adapted their strategies thanks to the advancement of technology,
investing in servers and IT infrastructure for services, data storage and
communications. Examples of attacks on the infrastructure of the Colombian Cartel or the Triad
China, demonstrate how in other countries coalitions of hackers use Trojans to carry out
eavesdropping, and how crucial it is to use these tools to counteract the
criminal associations.
Despite this, in Italy, as pointed out by the Honorable Nicola Gratteri (Italian Magistrate
dedicated to the fight against the Mafia), these methodologies are still debated. This thesis
aims to contribute to the development of counterterrorist tools by providing a new
Trojan model, called Icarus.
The project stems from the belief that research and scientific progress are fundamental
for the maintenance of National Security. This can also be inferred through the
consultation of the annual National Security Report carried out by the Intelligence Branch.
At the technical level, the investigative tool developed (Icarus), allows for the execution of actions of
undetectable command-and-control on a possible terrorist-like IT asset belonging
to criminal organizations, allowing the subsequent interception of activities inside and
external to the machine under analysis.
In detail, Icarus, developed in the C++ language, aims to ensure persistent access,
stable and undetectable access on a remote Windows x64 machine. Such a tool, exploits techniques
advanced AntiVirus Evasion and Obfuscation to prevent detection. Its development was
occurred through the manipulation of the internal structures of the Windows Kernel, obtained
through Reverse Engineering of the binaries of that Kernel.
Finally, important to note that Icarus is an extremely cross-cutting project; during the
development, advanced techniques in Networking, Operating Systems, Cryptography
and Social Engineering.